---
slides: example
url_pdf: ""
summary: FeCrAl ferritic alloys are considered as a promising candidate material
  for accident tolerant fuel (ATF) cladding\[1]\[3], which suppresses the
  hydrogen generation rate of reactions with hot water in light water reactors
  (LWR).
url_video: ""
date: 2022-09-02T02:03:53.064Z
categories:
  - FeCrAl
external_link: ""
url_slides: ""
title: "FeCrAl ODS steels for LWR cladding "
tags:
  - FeCrAl
links: []
image:
  caption: tensile specimens aged at 475C after 2000hrs
  focal_point: Smart
  filename: featured.jpg
url_code: ""
---
FeCrAl ferritic alloys are considered as a promising candidate material for accident tolerant fuel (ATF) cladding\[1]\[3], which suppresses the hydrogen generation rate of reactions with hot water in light water reactors (LWR). However, the increased neutron absorption penalty of iron based FeCrAl alloys in comparison to conventional zircaloy system should be covered by reducing the cladding wall thickness and/or enhancing the uranium enrichment of the nuclear fuel\[1]. Reducing cladding tube thickness is an easier way to enhance the neutron economy with FeCrAl alloy cladding assemblies\[4]. For instance, it was reported that the thickness of iron-based alloy claddings should be limited to \~300μm with 4.78% U235 fuel enrichment to match the same cycle length of Zircaloy without changing other fuel pin geometries\[5]. 
Nevertheless, the structural integrity of claddings requires a minimum thickness to hold the required strength for safety consideration. In order to compensate for the strength loss by the wall thickness reduction, the strategy of oxide dispersion strengthening (ODS) was adopted in the development of FeCrAl ATF cladding. Thus, new national programs of FeCrAl ODS ferritic steels R&D\[6]have been conducted on the bases of the knowledges accumulated by the Japanese leading programs of R&D of ODS ferritic/martensitic steels with\[8]\[10] and without\[11] Al-addition which is originally for the applications to core components of Gen IV fast reactors. 
The FeCrAl ODS ferritic steels have demonstrated their excellent mechanical properties particularly the creep resistance\[12]\[14], oxidation/corrosion resistances\[16]\[18]\[20] and radiation tolerance\[21]\[23]. However, the increased ultra-high strength also brought about difficulty in the fabrication processes including cold rolling and pilger milling\[25]. This concern can be overcome by recrystallization treatment which reduces yield stress to allow the steels an easier routine in tube manufacturing, meanwhile satisfying the strength requirements for in-core applications\[27]. According to the previous study on the recrystallization of FeCr(Al) ODS ferritic steels\[28], the typical recrystallization temperatures of FeCrAl ODS ferritic steels after hot extrusion ranges from 1050°C to 1400°C depending on the alloy compositions. The on-set recrystallization temperature will be significantly reduced by the degree of cold work\[27]. As for fully recrystallized FeCrAl ODS ferritic steels, the yield stress greatly reduced by 25%\~50%, but the total elongation had barely changed\[29]. This allows us to consider that the difficulty in tubing could be relieved by recrystallization with reduced yield stress, and the required strength could be kept after partial recrystallization without too much sacrificing the ductility of FeCrAl ODS steels.
Aging embrittlement is a crucial issue in the development of FeCrAl ODS ferritic steels. The deterioration of mechanical properties during aging is caused by various fine precipitates that are formed at elevated temperatures. According to the recent researches based on atom probe tomography (APT), age-hardening is caused by both Cr-rich ′-phases\[30]\[32]\[34] and/or (Al, Ti)-rich -phases\[36]\[38] depending on the concentration of Cr and Al in the FeCrAl ODS steels. As for the effect of Al addition on age-hardening, Kobayashi and Takasugi\[40] investigated the age-hardening of several FeCrAl ferritic alloys with different compositions and showed that the addition of Al to FeCr ferritic steels shifted the Fe-Cr miscibility boundary to a higher Cr concentration, consequently hinders the -′ phase separation. Particularly in the study by Dou et al, when Al is >7wt%, no ′ phase was formed in Fe15Cr-xAl ODS steels\[39], while the Al additions enhance the formation of Ti-Al enriched β′ precipitates causing age-hardening without the occurrence of -′ phase separation \[36]. Different to high Cr ODS steels (PM2000)\[32], Sang et al\[37] reported that the β′ could form in early stage during thermal aging in high Al ODS steels. The age-hardening of as-extruded FeCrAl ODS steels has been investigated at 475 °C up to 9000 hrs\[37]\[41], while the aged FeCrAl ODS steels after tubing process have been investigated by Yano et al\[42]. The aging of high-Al FeCrAl ODS steels were also investigated by Maji et al\[43] where again no ′ but Al enriched precipitates were formed in these steels. The reduction of tensile ductility by aging significantly depends on both Cr and Al composition in FeCrAl ODS steels. Fortunately, it was reported that the loss of elongation in aged high-Cr ODS steels were much less than that of SUS430\[39] which is a 16Cr ferritic steel (non-ODS). The loss of elongation by thermal ageing appears to depend on the sort of ODS alloys which bear different dispersion morphology of oxide particles and submicron size of grain structure. However, their mechanism is still unclear. 
The objective of this research is to investigate the aging behavior of the SP-series FeCrAl ODS steels up to 10000hrs at 475°C. Both Al-free and Al-added ODS steels were selected to compare the Al-addition effect on the aging.  Simulated tube fabrication processing was applied to investigate the tubing effect on the mechanical properties and the recrystallization effect on the ductility loss by aging. Discussion was made on the enhanced resistance to ductility loss by ODS steels in comparison of non-ODS steels.